In this video, we're going to look at
how we can create some very creative
visualizations using pie charts and
doughnut chart.
In the first example,
Roman would like to show how in 2017 half
the world's emissions came
from just three countries, and
we're going to start by selecting
our data, so that's A3 to B7.
And we're going to come up to our Insert
tab, and we're going to choose Pie chart.
I'm just going to go for a 2D Pie chart,
and the first thing to do is move that
over a little bit, and resize slightly,
so it fits nicely under the data.
Now, while we can take a pretty
good guess at these segments,
it's useful to have the percentages.
And a quick way of adding them is to
come up to your chart design ribbon,
come to Quick Layout, and
these give you some instant presets.
And we're going to go for
the first one, layout 1,
which gives us both these series
labels and the percentages.
Now, if you want to format these,
just click on any one of the labels,
they all highlight, and
then you can come, and make them white,
change the size,
make them bold if you like.
And then we're just going to make one
final little tweak here, we're going to
turn off our chart title, and
we're going to replace it with an image.
So make sure your charts is still
selected, come to Insert pictures and
navigate to wear your workbook are and
insert the CO2 image.
We'll resize that slightly and just pop
it into the middle of our chat, and
there's a nice way of presenting our data.
Now, one thing to take into account
is that all of these countries
actually have extremely large populations.
But one limitation of a pie chart is
you can only show a single series,
so you can't show the population
data on this chart.
Fortunately, we have a new type of
chart called the doughnut chart,
which is very much like a pie, but
it will let us show multiple series.
So we're going to copy our pie,
so Crtl + C and
click into the cell next door,
and Crtl + V to paste.
We'll get rid of our image for
this one, and
then we're going to come to our
chart design, come to Chart Type and
weren't going to switch that
over to a doughnut chart.
So similar concept, but we have a hole in
the middle and we can add multiple series.
So coming up to our data, we're going to
grab that blue square bottom right corner,
and just drag across, and
we can now see our population as well.
Look a little messy though, so
let's do a bit of a clean up.
First thing we're going to do is we're
going to click on the labels in the outer
ring, and
we're just going to switch those off.
And then we're going to click on
our labels in the inner ring, and
we're going to come to our label options.
And we're going to switch
off the percentage, and
we don't need leader lines either.
And then if we just select one of the
rings, it doesn't matter which one, and
come to Format Data Series, you'll see
you can actually change the whole size,
we can make that 25%.
And that gives us a little
bit more breathing space.
So looking pretty good, but
I'd like to make the outer ring look
slightly different, and one way we can do
this is by adjusting the color slightly.
So I'm going to click again
into one of the segments,
such as that one segment is selected,
come to my format data point label, and
I'm going to set that to Solid Fill.
Now that may change the colour, so we're
just going to set that back to our light
green, and then we're going to
change our transparency to 35%.
So it's still the same shade, but
it's just a little bit lighter.
Then we're going to do that for
the darker green as well.
But if you use your F4 keyboard shortcut,
you'll see as a slightly quicker
way of applying the changes and
then just switch it over to dark green.
Click on your Yellow F4
like that yellow and
then the same with the Orange,
F4 and set that to orange.
Now the only sort of downside
is it's not that easy to label
the actual rings themselves.
You can use category labels, but
an easier way is just to use text boxes.
So I've gotten pre prepared over here and
I'm going to copy, click into my chart,
and paste them, and then just move
that somewhere into the outer ring.
And then I'll do the same
with the emissions, copy,
clicking my chart, Ctrl+V to paste,
and pop that into the inner ring.
And the reason we copy pasted
rather than just dragging them
is when I move the chart,
you will see the text boxes move with it.
So that's one way where we could represent
two sets of data, but in a pie format.
I'll leave you to decide if
that's the most effective option.
But the reason I wanted to introduce you
to this multiple ring option is it does
open up a lot of creative options for
creating really effective visualizations.
And the next one we're going to
look at is called a tracker.
Now actually pre prepared
a tracker over here, so
I'm just going to click on that shape and
delete it.
So this tracker is showing us that
there's been a 22% improvement
in energy efficiency for
the USA from 2005 to 2015.
And to prepare this data, Roman has
calculators, the improvement, and
then his calculated the offset.
How much it has improved by?
By just taking 1 minus the improvement.
And these are the values we're
going to use in our tracker,
and we can now build a tracker for China.
Now the first thing we're going to
do is build a series that forms this
little gray backdrop feel like.
And if you scroll across to column S,
you'll see we actually have 60 ones that I
prepared earlier, that's all there in that
column, and we're going to select them.
So click S2, Ctrl+wShift+Down+Arrow and
we're going to come to our Insert,
come to our Charts, choose pie,
and then select the doughnut chat.
And we're going to need to move
this up a little bit, okay?
Now the first thing we're going to need to
do is turn off our title and our legend.
So let's get rid of both of those,
and then we can resize that so
it fits nicely in the space
above the other tracker.
Now clicking into our series, we're
going to change our whole size again,
this time, I'm going to set it to 50%.
And then we're going to come to our Fill
Color and we're going to say Solid Fill,
and we're going to set
the whole thing to a pale gray.
So that's created the backdrop.
Now to add the improvement,
we're going to add another series.
So we're going to come to Select Data,
we're going to click Add,
our series name is going
to be our selected region.
And our series values are going to be
our improvement and our offset, and
then we're going to say, OK, and OK again.
The problem is it's showing
as concentric rings, but
we know how to solve this
problem from the last video.
Clicking on one of the rings, were going
to come to change Chart Type, and then
we're going to put that on a secondary
axis, and we're going to say, OK.
And that overlays the first
series with the second series.
And largest a couple of little tweaks,
click once, and
then twice on your percentage improvement,
and turn on your Data Labels.
I think will make those white as well.
And then click on your offset once and
twice to make sure it's selected,
come to your Fill options and
set that to No fill.
Finally, to get our chart title,
we're going to use the text box again.
So I'm just going to say Insert,
come to Shapes,
choose the textbox,
a nice textbox to go in here.
And then we're going to come into
our formula bar, type equals,
and click on our region name,
and then percentile.
And then probably a good idea just to set
that vertically and horizontally, and
maybe just adjust the size
slightly down to a 9.
And now we can straightaway see that
the energy improvement for China was 54%.
Not only that, but
these trackers are completely dynamic.
So if I come and change my year for
example to 2007, you see it adjust,
and if I change my location to Cyrus,
it also adjusts.
It's really effective visualizations and
nice, creative way of
presenting your data.
[SOUND]